# Sentiment analysis of comments received through E-consultation module

**Problem Statement ID:** 25035

**Organization:** Ministry of Corporate Affairs

**Department:** Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MoCA)

**Category:** Software

**Theme:** Miscellaneous

## Description

Background eConsultation module is an online platform wherein proposed amendments/draft legislations are posted on MCA's website for external users to submit their comments and suggestions pertaining to the same through the MCA21 portal. The comments are captured in a structured format for due consideration with respect to amending the draft legislation, based on the suggestions or observations received. Problem Statement The draft document soliciting comments is made available for a specified period, during which any stakeholder may submit their observations either on the overall amendment or on specific provisions of the draft legislation. In instances where a substantial volume of comments is received on draft legislation, there exists a risk of certain observations being inadvertently overlooked or inadequately analysed. In order to review each individual submission, leveraging AI-assisted tools will help ensure that all remarks are duly considered and systematically analysed. Requirement is the development of an AI model aimed at predicting the sentiments of the suggestions provided by stakeholders in the eConsultation module. It should also generate a visual representation in the form of a word cloud, highlighting the keywords utilised by the stakeholders within their suggestions. Expected Outcome The intention is to discern the feedback received from the stakeholders through the following: • Sentiment analysis • Summary generation • Word cloud The solution should considerably reduce the effort of the end user in analysing a high volume of comments. It should be able to clearly identify the sentiments of comments individually as well as broadly overall. The summary generation should be accurate and convey the meaning of the comment properly, in a precise manner. The word cloud feature should showcase the density of the words used by all users.

## Background

eConsultation module is an online platform wherein proposed amendments/draft legislations are posted on MCA's website for external users to submit their comments and suggestions pertaining to the same through the MCA21 portal. The comments are captured in a structured format for due consideration with respect to amending the draft legislation, based on the suggestions or observations received. Problem Statement The draft document soliciting comments is made available for a specified period, during which any stakeholder may submit their observations either on the overall amendment or on specific provisions of the draft legislation. In instances where a substantial volume of comments is received on draft legislation, there exists a risk of certain observations being inadvertently overlooked or inadequately analysed. In order to review each individual submission, leveraging AI-assisted tools will help ensure that all remarks are duly considered and systematically analysed. Requirement is the development of an AI model aimed at predicting the sentiments of the suggestions provided by stakeholders in the eConsultation module. It should also generate a visual representation in the form of a word cloud, highlighting the keywords utilised by the stakeholders within their suggestions. Expected Outcome The intention is to discern the feedback received from the stakeholders through the following: • Sentiment analysis • Summary generation • Word cloud The solution should considerably reduce the effort of the end user in analysing a high volume of comments. It should be able to clearly identify the sentiments of comments individually as well as broadly overall. The summary generation should be accurate and convey the meaning of the comment properly, in a precise manner. The word cloud feature should showcase the density of the words used by all users.

